# moso-vue
My personal portfolio (re)built with [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org).

### Install
Run `npm install` or `yarn add` to install the dependencies.

### Scripts
Since this project is compiled with [Laravel Mix](https://github.com/JeffreyWay/laravel-mix), you have the following scripts at hand:

- `npm run dev` for a quick compile
- `npm run hot` for hot reloading (input fields won't be emptied upon refresh)
- `npm run watch` for watching files for changes and [browserSync](https://github.com/BrowserSync/browser-sync)
- `npm run production` for production, minification, and where Laravel Mix does its magic by compiling component-styles into a dedicated file

### Mix
I use Laravel Mix, and extract Vue so it's loaded first. This makes Laravel Mix generate three files:

- `manifest.js`: a small bit of webpack run-time code
- `vendor.js`: Vue.js wrapped in webpack
- `app.js`: all the vue components and their dependencies

These **must** be included in that order in `dist/index.html` for the project to work.

### File structure
All edits should be done in the `src`-folder. This folder is clearly divided into `js` and `sass`.

All Vue-related belongs in the `src/js`-folder:

- classes
- components
- directives
- utilities
- views
- The main `src/js/app.js`-file

All styling belongs in the `src/sass`-folder, and the files are named so it should be easy to find what's what.

In the `dist`-folder are:

- The compiled styling inside the `dist/css`-folder. If you edit this file, and compile, it will be overwritten
- Local fonts (Roboto Draft) in `dist/fonts`
- Images in `dist/images/`
- The compiled js in `dist/js/`.
- The `404.html`-file
- The main `index.html`-file
- `manifest.json` and `mix-manifest.json`, where the latter is auto-generated by Laravel Mix

When you upload your website, just upload the contents of the `dist`-folder.

# Editing content
You probably want to edit the content, if you want to copy the site and just change some stuff.
However, since this repo started to get forked, I decided to move my data away from the views and fetch them through a small api.

*That means you need to change stuff*
Otherwise you'll get my data, which will just look silly. It's on my todo-list to throw an error, if the api-request isn't coming from my own server, so you'll notice once you boot up the page.

Unless you want to utilize the power of an api, you need to change the following lines inside each `src/js/views/*.vue`-file:
```js
data: function() {
    return: {
        something: '' // REMOVE THESE
    }
}
mounted() {
    this.fetchSomething(); // REMOVE THESE
},

methods: {
    fetchSomething() { // REMOVE THESE FUNCTIONS
        axios.get('https://api.moso.io/api/v1/something')
        .then(response => {
            this.something = response.data;
        });
    }
}
```

You can then go through each `src/js/views/*.vue`-file and remove `v-for` and `:key`, remove the colons (`:`) infront of each property (like `:image`), as the colon (again `:`) is a shorthand for `v-bind:`, which you won't need if you're filling in your own content.

You may also remove the `axios`-import from `src/js/app.js`.

# Custom components
This project is full of custom and homemade components. Some of them aren't used but are kept in, so I have a hosted copy of a working component. Unused components are, of course, not being loaded, to keep `app.js` at a minimum.

Perhaps I will write some documentation on how they're used, if this is needed. However, since this is just to show my Vue-skills, and since this is a personal website just for me, I haven't written any. **They should be straight forward, though**.

The list are as follows:

### moso-components
##### moso-card-cover
Meant to emulate the [Image Card](https://getmdl.io/components/index.html#cards-section) from [Material Design Lite](https://getmdl.io). A demo can be found on [my Codepen](https://codepen.io/moso/pen/BWvYxa). _Not used._

##### moso-card-reveal
Meant to emulate the [Card Reveal](http://materializecss.com/cards.html#reveal) from Materialize. _Not used._

##### moso-drawer-list
This is basically the sidebar menu content.

##### moso-profile
This is the small box with the social icons and profile image you see on the front/profile page.

##### moso-profile-item
These items are the social icons in said small box.

##### moso-profile-picture
Wrapper for the profile-picture.

##### moso-progressbar
These are the "switch" progressbars you see in the Skills-section on the profile page. These are not draggable, sorry. A demo can be found on [my CodePen](https://codepen.io/moso/pen/evQxRE).

##### moso-project
This is the projects you see on the projects page. This is also where I use [vue-masonry](https://github.com/shershen08/vue-masonry).

##### moso-sidenav
This is the sidenav. Yeah... This also includes the sidenav-backdrop - the dark, clickable area that covers the page when the sidebar is active on small devices.

##### moso-timeline
This is the timeline you see on the Resume page. A working demo can be found on [my CodePen](https://codepen.io/moso/pen/MpPRgg) with slightly different styling.

##### moso-timeline-item
Wrapper for the items inside `moso-timeline`.

##### moso-toolbar
This is basically just the toolbar for the title and the version badge.

##### version-badge
A simple version badge that is literally just a string with some styling.

### nano-components
These are from the framework [Nano](https://github.com/getnano/nano-framework) that I'm working on in my sparetime.

##### nano-ripple
This is the small ripple you see when you click on buttons and the social icons. This is inspired by [Material Design](https://getmdl.io/components/index.html#buttons-section) (look under "button with ripple") and requires a custom directive and a custom class which are both included in this project.

##### nano-tabs
This is a Material Design-inspired tab-bar, like the one on [Material Design Lite](https://getmdl.io/components/index.html#layout-section/tabs). This one requires a two custom utilities: `getClosestVueParent.js` and `throttle.js`, which are both included in this project. _Not used._

# Issues?
Please report any issues and non-working stuff here on GitHub.
